Substantive change is defined as any event that would cause significant interruption of product flow to our customers in any of the global markets that we serve.   While water is a key resource for manufacturing, the company is not exposed to significant physical risks at a global level. Risks associated with water to any single manufacturing site or locale could have a significant local impact; however, operating contingencies and geographic diversification limit these risks to Abbott's business, operations, revenue and expenditures.
Substantive change would mean either the inability to operate one of our facilities due to conditions of flooding, drought, inability to meet environmental regulations, unacceptable compliance cost or significant changes to fiber supply.
Example: In Finland there is a new treatment limit for sulfate that will require the construction and operation of a new water treatment facility. This will impact the sustaining capital and operating costs.
With respect to water risk, a substantive change would be defined as a percentage loss of network capacity and regional impact on network capacity.
Several Allergan  locations have experienced droughts in the past 20 years with the most recent occurring between 2007 and 2010 and currently in 2013 (areas include California, Texas and Brazil).  Water is delivered into the areas from several other locations to supplement the demand from the area.  Reuse of treated effluent to supplement existing groundwater resources has been instituted over the past four years in southern California.  Plans for mandatory water curtailment and water rationing were developed for these sites.  Water costs continue to climb as the resource becomes more restricted.  There have been no impacts to Allergan product manufacturing nor revenues as a result of these droughts to date.  The water cost increases have been minimal when compared to other utility costs such as electricity and fuel.  However, in Brazil, electricity is tied to water availability due to the high reliance on hydroelectric power in the country.  Droughts in Brazil do impact the electrical costs as well as the water costs, and are therefore more substantial.
Seasonal rainfall fluctuations may affect the volume and quality of croproduction on farms within our supply chain.  We judge the risk to our business as low at this time due to our flexibility to source from other origins.A substantive change would require alternative sourcing from other locations and we have proven global supply chains to deliver this flexibility.
Altria’s operating companies are exposed to some water-related risks (current or future) but at this time we do not believe these risks have the potential to generate a substantive change in our business operation, revenue or expenditure. Altria publically discloses risks that could adversely impact the operations, sales, profitability and business of an affected subsidiary in a material way.Altria's operating company, Ste. Michelle Wine Estates, operates one production facility that is located in a water-stressed area as defined by the WBCSD Global Water Tool: WRI Annual Renewable Water Supply Per Person (projections for 2025). Ste. Michelle operates 11 production facilities across three states and the operating company accounted for 2.6% of Altria's revenues in 2014.
At the current time, there are no identified current or future risks that have a material impact on business operations. Our efforts in understanding potential water risks at the corporate level or with our supply chain is continuing to evolve. We will continue to develothis process through the use of water risk tools (like WBCSD or GEMI), increased engagement with our local water agencies, and focus on improving water use and conservation.Substantive change in our business operations would be defined as having a material impact on the company related to increased spending in our internal operations or one that results in significant changes for our suppliers.
Current risk is related to uncertain EPA rulemaking pertaining to 316(b), Effluent Limitation Guidelines and other proposed regulatory actions associated with threatened and endangered species.  Depending on the outcome, additional increases in capital expenditures may be required at major generating facilities.
Capital and O&M expenses to comply with water-related regulations; closure of facilities and load curtailment at others in response to water-related regulations or water stressors (scarcity, flooding, etc.). Assessment is limited to the steam-electric facilities utilizing surface water withdrawals (excluding ground water sources and hydroelectric facilities) in the Mississippi, Sabine and St. Lawrence watersheds that fall within the WRI Aqueduct med-high overall water risk areas or the US drought mamoderate to extreme drought areas.  The WRI Aqueduct overall water risk identifies areas with higher exposure to water-related risks and is an aggregated measure of all selected indicators from the Physical Quantity, Quality and Regulatory & Reputational Risk categories.
Potable water is a necessary resource to our manufacturing process. Should water become extremelyscarce in regions where we manufacture our products, it could potentially have an impact on our manufacturing operations. This potential risk has been identified at a functional level within Environment, Health, Safety, and Sustainability and is considered a low potential risk.
A substantive change is a significant modification or expansion in the scope or nature of Anadarko’s direct operations (not suppliers) at a field level, as measured by the level of activity or production of an asset from sourcing, management or disposal of water. Anadarko has a deeportfolio of opportunities in the U.S. onshore, most of which would be considered unconventional resources plays. As such, these assets require access to water for drilling and completions operations. Without an adequate supply of water, Anadarko and/or its suppliers would need to develoalternatives, allocate capital to other assets in its portfolio, and/or consider reducing the level of activity in a given play. The threshold amount of change necessary will differ among operational plays based upon the economics involved with the required change. These considerations are a significant part of our investment, engagement and water-management strategies to ensure adequate supplies of and appropriate disposal of water at all of our U.S. onshore growth opportunities. Additionally, activity levels are evaluated continuously as part of our budget process for each field. During the budget process, potential changes in operations and costs, including water availability, management and disposal, are considered.
For exploration, a substantive change is defined as any change that reduces the rate of return below the threshold that prevents the project from occurring.  In terms of a producing well, a substantive change would increase the operating expense or lower production (i.e. if waterflood was prohibited) to the point that margins are no longer sufficient to continue production.
We rate our risk based on a measure of probability versus severity. A substantial ("substantive change") risk would be one that: - has a high level of probability, meaning most key factors contributing to the risk are present.  There may be deficiencies in controls or procedures currently in place.  Historically, the event has occurred with some frequency within Aptar or the industry.  The event is considered likely to occur once every 1-5 years.- has a high level of severity, meaning the potential impact on cash flow and earnings is material and will directly impact Aptar’s ability to meet strategic business objectives.  Quantified as impacts of $10 million or more.We rank probability and severity from 0 (low) - 10 (high). Per this rating sytem, items falling in the following catagories would require mitigation plans and are assigned an owner accountable for corrective action. These would be considered "red zone" items:-has severity 3.5 - 6.5 and probability of 6.5 or greater;-has probability of 3.5 - 6.5 and severity of 6.5 or greater;-or has a severity and a probability of greater than 6.5
Our customers use a significant amount of water to make their products.  If they are impacted by water quality or availability issues, then their demand for Applied Materials equipment could be impacted.
We use the WBCSD Water Tool to inform the process of identifying water stress areas in our U.S.-based operations. We combine our facility water-usage information with the information from WBCSD to target operations with high water use in areas of high stress. Water is critical within our suppliers’ operations, and any impact they experience due to water risk, may affect our future business operations.Although we are not experiencing current direct water risks from our supply chain, water is critical within our suppliers’ operations, and any impact they experience due to water risk, may affect our future business operations.  For this reason we will continue assessing our suppliers’ water risks using the annual survey mentioned in W2.2.
In terms of water risk, Baker Hughes defines a substantive change as one that has a material impact (positive or negative) upon our potential for revenue generation, and results in significant changes to the way we conduct our operations and/or to internal systems of control. The impacts may be direct (e.g., a hurricane damaging Baker Hughes assets, and disrupting operations), or indirect (e.g., through an impact on client activity, which affects our potential to gain or maintain business). Such changes would be disclosed in our annual financial report.For the purposes of reporting to Water CDP, Baker Hughes focused on global facilities operating in water stressed areas deemed Extreme or High according to the WRI Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas.  Additionally, facilities operating in the United States that were categorized as Medium-High water risk were evaluated.  All areas were analyzed based on any substantive change to Global Revenue.  Many of the facilities found to be in water stressed areas did not have supply chain operations, so only those with direct operations were included.  Within the United States, an emphasis was placed on water stressed areas that would have a greater impact on revenues due to their location on shale plays.
For the purpose of CDreporting, we consider risks that have potential financial implications of $10 million or more for our direct operations or our supply chain to be substantive.
Mining operations generally requires years of exploration, engineering design, environmental impact study, permit application and construction to be developed. Once constructed, every operation follows a life of mine (LOM) plan that schedule the annual production rate, waste management and environmental remediation etc. from operation to closure and post closure. We consider a wide range of risk factors in our corporate level risk monitoring and assessment.  For the purpose of this 2014 CDreport any long-term or medium-term deviation with a magnitude of greater than $200 M cash flow impact or 10% of the LOM key parameters, such as production rate, waste management, and increase in capital/operational cost etc., will be considered substantive change.  This definition has resulted in the removal of several risks that were reported last year.  We still account for these risks and many more water related risks but those are not discussed per definition. We repeat our water risk assessment on an annual basis. As part of this exercise, in 2015, the risk thresholds will be reviewed in light of developments in the business to ensure they are meaningful, and amended as appropriate.
Water risks are considered as part of business continuity planning.  Climate change is predicted to increase the frequency & distribution of storms.  While any one weather event is not tied to climate change, BD is experiencing weather impacts on its operations, including some site closures as a result of severe weather. We have manufacturing sites all over the world. In some instances, the manufacturing of certain of our product lines is concentrated in one or more of our plants. Weather, natural disasters (including pandemics), political change, failure to follow specific internal protocols and procedures, equipment malfunction, environmental factors or damage to one or more of our facilities could adversely affect our ability to manufacture our products, resulting in lost revenues and damage to our relationships with customersClimate change is predicted to increase droughts in certain regions that are dependent on hydropower or in areas where high quality water is required for operations. We have already seen some price increases in areas such as Brazil.  This may increase the cost of electricity if low water reservoirs require switching to another form of energy that is more expensive.  Additionally, water costs may increase in certain areas if droughts are prolonged and/or severe.
A substantive change in our business, operations, revenue or expenditure from water risks would be characterized by a disruption of a potable water supply substantial enough to warrant shutting down any aspect of our manufacturing process.  As our manufacturing process is highly regimented, delay at any stage due to a water shortage has the potential to require the entire batch to be discarded for quality and safety concerns. Additionally, some of our suppliers are under similar constraints and substantial shutdowns for them could impact our material supplies, thus restricting our operations.
A disruption to business continuity resulting from a water-related risk could substantively change the business, operations, revenue and potential expenditures. The relative impact would likely be measured using environmental, human and/or economic metrics.
Brown-Forman evaluates many variables in determining substantive change of our business and operations. One such variable is the overall availability of water for use in our direct operations. Globally, our company faces some direct risk associated with water scarcity because of the location of our operations and the requirements for water in our production processes and finished products. This risk stems from constraints on the available quantity, quality, and cost of water supplies across our enterprise but especially from a minority of our operations located in certain sensitive areas.Furthermore, a number of our key ingredients are agricultural based and are also dependent upon the availability of water. Any change in water dynamics, including water stress or even flooding, could cause supply disruptions or alterations in our supplier arrangements. This would result in cost increases for Brown-Forman. Also within our supply chain, we utilize co-packers for final completion of products. These facilities, while outside our operational control, rely upon abundant amounts of high quality water to carry out their services. Any disruption to their operations could impact the production and delivery of products.Weather, the effects of climate change, diseases, and other agricultural uncertainties that affect the mortality, health, yield, quality, or price of the various raw materials used in our products also present risks for our business, including in some cases potential impairment in the recorded value of our inventory. Changes in weather patterns or intensity can substantively disrupt our supply chain as well, which may affect production operations, insurance costs and coverage, as well as the timely delivery of our products to customers.Water is one of the major components of our products, so the quality and quantity of available water is important to our ability to operate our business. If droughts become more common or severe, or if our water supply were interrupted for other reasons, high-quality water could become scarce in some key production regions for our products, including Tennessee, Kentucky, California, Finland, Canada, and Mexico.
While Bunge has not defined a numerical threshold for what constitutes a substantive risk related to water, material impacts to the company’s financial results may stem from three types of risk:Our sugar production depends on the volume and sucrose content of the sugarcane that we cultivate or that is supplied to us by third-party growers. Both sugarcane croyields and sucrose content depend significantly on weather conditions, such as rainfall and prevailing temperatures.  As such, unfavorable weather conditions have had and could in the future have a material adverse effect on our sugar operations.Adverse weather conditions have historically caused volatility in the agricultural commodity industry and consequently in our operating results by causing crofailures or significantly reduced harvests, which may affect the supply and pricing of the agricultural commodities that we sell and use in our business, reduce demand for our fertilizer products and negatively affect the creditworthiness of agricultural producers who do business with us.Severe adverse weather conditions, such as hurricanes or flooding, may also result in extensive property damage, extended business interruption, personal injuries and other loss and damage to us. Our operations also rely on dependable and efficient transportation services. A disruption in transportation services, as a result of weather conditions or otherwise, may also significantly adversely impact our operations.
We realize that water risks could cause a substantive change in our business.  First, our operations could be affected if we had to shut down our manufacturing facilities due to a lack of water.  This would significantly impact our revenues.  Next, if water related risks impact our suppliers, we could either be impacted by not being able to obtain enough ingredients to make our products or have to pay a higher price for them.  At the end of the day, both of these things would have a negative impact on our revenues.
A substantive change in Carnival's business as it would relate to water risk would be an increase in expenditures or a massive change in ragulations that would significantly reduce net profits.
Our operations are exposed if there is a drought situation that limits our ability to use water for the manufacture of our paper products.  Climate change has impacted our region and we are experience wide variations in winter snow pack and wide variations in summer precipitation.
We define substantive change by risks due water that materially impact our business, operations, revenue or expenditure in a negative way for a significant period of time that would prevent us from carrying on normal operations and manufacturing activities to make and shiour products to customers.  A substantive scenario could lead to reduced business in the mid-term, reduction in revenue, and increase expenditures to cope with realized risk time periods.
Potential substantive changes to Celgene’s business and operations from water risks (see complete list below) are related to those that can contribute to a change in our business operations and impact costs related to water resources (withdrawal and discharge) and meeting regulatory requirements. This can also include any change or risk in water availability or quality utilized at our facility for operational use or employee consumption. This definition for substantive change is only applied to Celgene’s direct operations; another definition that relates to Celgene’s supply chain has yet to be formulated and applied.
As stated in our most recent filing with the SEC on February 25, 2015: "Water is a main ingredient in substantially all of our products, is vital to the production of the agricultural ingredients on which our business relies and is needed in our manufacturing process. It also is critical to the prosperity of the communities we serve. Water is a limited resource in many parts of the world, facing unprecedented challenges from overexploitation, increasing demand for food and other consumer and industrial products whose manufacturing processes require water, increasing pollution, poor management and the effects of climate change. As the demand for water continues to increase around the world, and as water becomes scarcer and the quality of available water deteriorates, the Coca-Cola system may incur higher costs or face capacity constraints that could adversely affect our profitability or net operating revenues in the long run."
Water-related risks are particularly relevant to the food industry, with a global supply chain intensely dependent on the availability of clean water to grow ingredients. Managing water risk — both at our own facilities and those embedded in our supply chain — is critical to ConAgra Foods’ long-term business success. ConAgra Foods defines substantive change in our business as those risks that impact our business strategy for a majority of ConAgra Foods operations, products or supply, applying to both our direct operations and supply chain.  Measures used to evaluate water risk include (1) the numbers of facilities, brands, and products affected; and (2) volume and spend of ingredients and raw materials affected by water risk.
Substantive changes include restricted access to freshwater, the inability to obtain permits to recycle water within our operations, inability to build the requisite infrastructure to recycle our water, and any changes in regulatory requirements which would make it infeasible or us unable to economically treat and ultimately dispose of produced water.
In defining substantive change to our business, operations, revenues or expenditures from water risk, Constellation considers both the magnitude of potential loss, and the likelihood of the risk.  For the purposes of this report, we define substantive change as the potential loss of 5% of our global production volume as well as the potential loss of 5% in each segment of our business (beer vs. wine & spirits) . This metric includes only our direct operations and not our supply chain.
The Enbridge Liquid Pipelines business unit defines risk to water as having a substantive change to our business using a standardized risk matrix to evaluate risk consequence and likelihood.  Where Enbridge’s operations could impact water the risk consequence is considered to be Major to Critical; however the likelihood of events occurring at these locations is kept Low through multiple control and mitigation measures.  The risk consequence of an impact to water range defined as Major to Critical ranges in financial value from >$1M to ≤$1B, impacts an area ranging in size from 0.1 ha to 1 km2 and impacts a waterbody ranging from a wetland to a lake or fast moving creek or river.  Ecological restoration activities could last from 1 to 10 years in duration.   Project risks around water which could contribute to substantive changes to business are assessed through the use of a Risk Screening Tool.  Risk levels are classified as Very Low, Low, Medium, High and Very High with a set of detailed impact criteria associated to each level.  Risks associated with leaks and spills to water from a stakeholder materiality perspective are considered to have a Very High Impact and Very High Probability.  The Impact Criteria include costs in excess of $50M, a delay in milestone achievements (i.e. project completion) of greater than 6 months and a service disruption of greater than 1 month for our customers.
Substantive change from water risk would result in a change or stoppage in production or revenue, or a large change in expenditures relating to water.
The basis for expressing the percentage of operation affected is based on plants identified using WRI AqueDuct risk mapping plus our own plant-specific information.  The calculation is: total net generation MWh of the facilities located in water stress regions divided by the total net generation MWh produced by the generation facilities over which Exelon has operational control.  This percentage does not include operations related to the marketing and distribution of electricity or natural gas, which have less significant water uses. Exelon Corporation compiled an enterprise-wide inventory of water withdrawals and associated discharges for the calendar year 2014. Subsequently, Exelon used the WRI AqueDuct to screen for potential geographic water scarcity.  All facilities identified in the screening process as being potentially located in water scarce areas were further evaluated using internal company knowledge and regional basin management information to confirm the model output.  The WRI AqueDuct uses twelve global maps grouped into physical risk quantity, quality, and regulatory and reputational risk. The seven physical quantity risks include: baseline water stress; inter-annual variability; seasonal variability; floods; drought severity; upstream storage and groundwater. Physical water quality risks include return flow ratio and upstream protected land.  The three regulatory and reputational risks include media coverage, access to water and threatened amphibians.   Overall water risk assessment identifies areas with higher exposure to these water-related risks and is an aggregated measure.  In the past Exelon used the UNEwater stress map: http://www.unep.org/dewa/vitalwater/jpg/0221-waterstress-EN.jpg which showed that Exelon had no operations in water stressed areas based on the UNEdefinition, i.e., less than 1700 cubic meters per person per year.  WRI’s new AqueDuct assessment tool is far more broad in its definition of water stress; and therefore we have identified additional areas where we operate that are subject to water stress as defined in the multivariate analyses WRI uses in their AqueDuct tool.
Our analysis of Ford operations shows that some of our facilities are located in regions where water supplies are already scarce. Global climate change also has the potential to further impact the quality and availability of water. We cannot be certain that we will always have access to water of the quantity and quality that our operations require. Our water strategy puts primary emphasis on our plants located in areas of water scarcity. Ford is committed to conserving water and using it responsibly. We will address water challenges internally within our own operations and externally in communities where we operate and throughout our supply chain. We have committed to measureable actions to support our global water strategy. In deciding which facilities and which basins concern Ford, aggregate scores from the Global Water Tool (subwatershed level) were used alongside internal knowledge of specific facilities and local watersheds. If a facility had a high risk or projected risk by the tools, it was listed. The operating facilities listed as “substantive” had to have a high stress or risk and have a production or support production of greater than 1% of global relevant production (vehicle, engines, or transmissions). This definition of risk applies to Ford’s direct operations. This definition is not applied to supply chain operations. Ford operations are reviewed annually for performance against this metric. The metric is reviewed approximately every 5 years for relevancy as part of the water strategy update.
We consider a substantive change from water risk to be one that would have a significant impact on our business and society.
GM has a Chief Risk Officer that reports both to the CFO as well as to the Board of Directors.  The CRO is responsible for GM’s enterprise and operational risk management plan and processes including identifying and assessing corporate and asset level risks.  GM’s risk and opportunities identification process is as follows: - Executives from GM’s various functions and geographic locations have been appointed as risk officers- Annually, these risk officers identify, evaluate and assess various company and asset risks and opportunities. Risk officers review results with their respective Executive LeadershiTeam (ELT)(i) Company level Risks and opportunities are categorized as Tier 1, 2 or 3 based on frequency, how quickly they may materialize, and on their potential impact to the company.  Impact may be measured by a number of variables including reputational, operational, revenue, etc.  - All Tier 1 have approved mitigation plans, and are reviewed in detail regularly by the ELT and by the Board.  - All Tier 2 risks have approved mitigation plans and are reviewed at least once a year by the ELT within GM and by the BOD.  - All Tier 3 risks have been fully analysed, put on a “watch list” and are regularly reviewed by the risk officer and their respective ELT member.(ii) Water Risks identified as Asset level risks have mitigation plans that are responsibility of day-to-day management.  Exposure to and experience with catastrophic risk or losses from climate change or other natural events are continuously analyzed and reviewed for ongoing operations and when evaluating new sites and supplier selection. Asset level risks are generally those that are anticipated to occur with regular or high frequency, but have an overall low impact on the company and can be absorbed by the reserves on the annual balance sheet.  Lessons learned are incorporated into future site planning, supplier selection process, and risk mitigation planning and strategic development.While the risks related to water at individual GM facilities is not substantive in total to GM, there are some facilities located in Australia, Brazil, China, Egypt, Kenya, Mexico, and South Africa that do have high water related risks.
Substantive changes include a decrease or stoppage of production or revenue, or a significant increase in expenditures from water risk.
The water is an important resource for the Griffith business. Without water, it is not possible to produce their products, which by the way has the water as an ingrediente, or maintain their structure in adequate conditions.
Substantive risks to our direct operations are those that impact our ability to successfully deliver products to our customers in a timely manner. Risks are prioritized based on severity and probability, allowing us to focus on those risks that are the most likely to have a considerable financial impact.
Substantive change is defined as change that could materially impact revenues or costs. For example by curtailing operations such as hydraulic fracturing, or by restricting access to a crucial supply chain input such as fresh water or guar.
Some of Hospira's products are tied to fresh-water availability, both for use in pharmaceutical products (solutions), for product sterilization and for utility needs.
Substantive change in the business from water risk refers to declines in production resulting from limited water availability and risks to achieving the company's vision of zero harm. A significant incident is any environmental incident that results in serious impact, with medium-term effects requiring significant remediation or corrective action.
Substantive changes include plant relocation, curtailment of operations, product relocation, interruptions in availability, increased cost for municipal water, increased cost for raw materials, lack of security of supply of raw materials, and significant investment in water reduction/recycling.
Kimberly-Clark's tissue business is very water intensive, and relies significantly on the availability of adequate supplies.  Any interruption in the water supply would directly curtail production and force the shutdown of the facility until the water supply is restored.  For any expansion, or new greenfield site, the availability of adequate fresh water supply is very important.  Because of this, all new expansions or new tissue machines will employ state-of-the-art water conservation technologies, and, new wastewater plants will employ the latest technology in water recycling.  These efforts incur a higher expenditure than traditional technologies. The threshold for substantive risk is <1% of global production capacity, which applies to direct operations. Risk is evaluated annually and the risk mitigation plan is implemented and adjusted based on the analysis.
Ongoing drought in California is anticipated to continue through the next few years.  Taiwan is also experiencing drought effects.  Changes to the business would only be affected by water usage and restrictions for personnel on-site.  Water is minimally used in the production process for stencil cleaning, and alternative methodologies for replacing stenciling requiring water cleaning are underway.
"Substantive Change" is defined as a plus or minus 5% change in the company annual revenue. Based on 2014 revenues, this equates to revenue of US$173,300,000.
As mentioned previously, a lot of the product manufactured at our facility contain a large quantity of water. In the event of water shortage, it would be impossible for us to continue our operations without purchasing water tankers supplied by another community. This would cost us a lot more than the cost of the withdrawal of the town water and would impact our financial health.
Substantive change is defined as a significant operation change or expenditure greater than $1 million. Elements of substantive change include the following:- Rapidly increasing social, political and media concern leading to project delays, increased costs- Increasing pressure on water use due to in-migration to communities in proximity to our operations leading to impacts on operations- Water scarcity and water surplus leading to production constraints and increased costs- Increasing stringent regulations focused on water management and discharge requirements leading to increased costs- Increasing financial exposure at closure due to increasingly stringent regulations and water treatment costs
We produce aluminum sheet and light gauge products for use in multiple markets, which includes beverage can.  Our single largest end-use market is beverage can sheet. The beverage market is highly dependent on fresh clean water as a key raw material, within the manufacturing process and other product ingredients.  Certain of our customers in the beverage market are significant to our revenues, and we could be adversely affected by changes in the business or financial condition of these significant customers or by the loss of their business.
