Aetna is currently assessing and evaluating the risks and consequences due to water disruptioand changes.
AVY defines substantive change as impacts orevenue, stakeholders and costs as well as availability of purchased goods. Indicators and amount of these changes we recognize as substantive changes include 5% revenue, concerns expressed by key stakeholders, and cost increases as much as 5% (or significant risk of material availability). Any one of these elements or a combinatiothereof would be basis for evaluating mitigating measures. These elements impact both direct operations and supply chain.
At Best Buy, we use aISO 14001 certified Environmental Management System (EMS) iour U.S. operations to systematically identify, prioritize, manage and review environmental aspects. Through the use of our EMS, we are able to systematically assess and continuously improve our environmental initiatives, goals, compliance matters, and ultimately reduce our environmental impact.  Water was not categorized as a high priority because our water use per square foot is minimal. Iour company-owned or managed facilities, water use is primarily limited to these fixture types: water closets, urinals, lavatory faucets and kitchesinks. Imost facilities, Best Buy is a tenant and water used for irrigatiopurposes is controlled and operated by the property owners. Our water is supplied and treated by local municipalities. As a retailer, our water impacts are de minimis. Through the use of our EMS, we ensure compliance with all regulatory frameworks regarding water—specifically storm water permits.Iaddition, i2014 the Best Buy Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability team conducted a sustainability assessment. The assessment identified environmental and social topics based oanalysis of interviews and surveys with internal business partners and key external stakeholders. Our analysis determined e-waste, climate change, responsible sourcing, and sustainable products are among the top sustainability priorities for our company. Water use iour operations is de minimis and not considered material.
Facilities have not beelocated iareas which have experienced significant water shortages impacting water availability.
We follow aEnterprise Risk Management (ERM) process that encompasses our entire company to identify, assess, prioritize and address major risks oaongoing basis.  ERM addresses the full spectrum of risks: market/environmental, compliance, legal, strategic, financial/operational and reputational.  Whea significant risk is identified based ointernal financial thresholds and other criteria, the process includes the development, implementatioand monitoring of risk mitigatiostrategies and reporting. WithiERM, we define Business Continuity Management as a holistic management process that identifies lower-probability significant events, including those resulting from climate change-related events such as the increased frequency or severity of weather conditions, including hurricanes, typhoons or tornados.The Audit Committee of our Board participates iregular reviews of our ERM process to assess and manage enterprise risks, including those related to market/environmental, strategic, financial, operational, legal, compliance and reputational risks. Iaddition, each of the other standing Board Committees regularly meet to discuss the short-term and long-term objectives and provide oversight for risks related to the applicable committee’s areas of responsibility.  As stated iour Corporate Governance Guidelines, our Board of Directors is responsible for risk oversight as part of its fiduciary duty of care to effectively monitor business operations. Our Board administers its risk oversight functioas a whole and through its Committees.  The asset or operational responsibility for these areas is delegated to the senior executive level.
Cisco defines substantive change as either affecting publicly reported financial results, changes to existing enterprise risk assessment results requiring mitigating action, or impacting component or product availability to the extent customer shipments or schedule are impacted. This definitioapplies to both our direct operations and supply chain.
Clorox has enterprise risk management processes to identify, assess and prioritize business risks. Clorox uses a systematic process to evaluate risks. The process includes identifying risks, assessing exposures and quantifying the value at risk to the company. The evaluatioconsiders level of potential impact, the overall vulnerability to aevent based othe time and our capacity to react and adapt, and the likelihood of aoccurrence.While severe regional weather events have the potential to disrupt our operations, or that of our customers and/or suppliers, we believe our dispersed supply chaiaffords us redundancy, which mitigates risk to our business from localized events. Additionally, Clorox engages iengineering loss-preventiostrategies aimed at reducing the risk of natural and accidental hazards and each locatiohas backup power supply for critical functions. The company’s manufacturing locations have comprehensive emergency response plans and most locations have business continuity plans. The company’s headquarters also has aemergency response plawith trained floor wardens, established evacuatioprocedures and business continuity plans for critical functions. We believe the locatioof our facilities limit threats from rising ocealevels.
Colgate uses aEnterprise Risk Management (ERM) Program to identify, assess, prioritize and manage physical risks. The ERM Committee is sponsored by the Chairman, President and CEO of the Company and includes representatiofrom key internal business leaders.  Risks are collectively identified across the organizatioand are classified withithe Strategic, Financial, Operational, InformatioTechnology, Legal & Compliance and Emerging Risk Categories.  Each Risk Category is assigned aowner who is also a member of the ERM Committee and who is ultimately accountable for successfully managing the identified risk.  The Natural Disaster ERM - addresses the physical risks associated with water and climate change that could disrupt our commercial and supply chaioperations.   Colgate also has a formal process to identify critical suppliers (e.g. high volume suppliers, suppliers of critical materials, non-substitutable formulas). Every year we update our segmentatiostrategies where we classify materials and suppliers according to the criticality of the material segment as well as the market complexity and buyer power using a matrix tool. Selected agricultural materials that are impacted by change iprecipitatioextremes and droughts are considered ithis process. Risk management plans including changes isource of supply and potential alternative formulations are iplace.For purposes of this survey, we used a screening criteria to identify sites meeting the CDP guidance for "substantive" as follows: 1) sites indicated as "High" or "Extremely High" overall water risk per WRI Aqueduct, and 2) which are either considered strategic sites or those which account for >2% of global productiovolume.This threshold is evaluated annually, whethe Aqueduct tool is used to evaulate water risk. The Global Sustainability and EHS group engages with local sites to evaluate the threshold based oboth the Aqueduct tool and more short-term and local conditions and events.
"Cummins uses a multi-pronged approach to evaluating risks and opportunities and determining if they are substantive to our business: 	Cummins Business Continuity Planning functioprioritizes and addresses key risks of which water related issues are one component. Cummins developed a detailed cause and effect (C&E) matrix to prioritize our sites combining multiple factors including: 1) the site’s self-assessment of water risk from a survey osource water sustainability, quality, discharge, regulatory, and cost considerations addressing both current and future (2017 and beyond) conditions, 2) the size and complexity of the site, 3) the presence or absence of water supply assessments, 4) and watershed-specific water stress indicators.  For water stress indicators, Cummins worked with aexternal consultant to develop a composite picture of current and future water stress by combining data from WRI Aqueduct Tool, WBCSD Global Water Tool, and consultant expertise ithe countries/regions where we operate. Portions of this data extend to a 2025 planning horizon.  Scoring and weighting factors were applied to each of the 4 components of the C&E matrix and a‘at risk’ threshold was defined as any sites scoring 150 or above itotal composite score. Based upothese results, Cummins conducted detailed watershed assessments at each of the 3 locations scoring above the 150 ‘at risk’ threshold, recently we added two more sites.  BFCEC due to its growth that raised the risk scoring and CBL due to specific water issues arising ithe area. Iadditioto the watershed assessments over 20 site level audits have beeconducted to further validate conditions at prioritized sites.  These audits and assessments identified specific areas for water management improvements including conservation, risk management, and community/watershed engagement opportunities.Facility data and conditions are reviewed annually and may alter the priority sites form year to year, but a formal risk assessment using the full cause and effect matrix tool is planned to be conducted every 5 years.A six sigma project scheduled for 2015 completiowill help determine the level of participatiofor our suppliers irelatioto our water goals. This may determine the necessity of risk evaluations as well as water reporting requirements, conclusions will be made at project completion."
To generate a substantive change iour business, operations, revenue, or expenditure, any particular event or change would have to impact either a wide range of product lines or a large swath of our stores. Because of the wide geographical diversity and the many diverse product lines that we sell, aimpact oany one store or product line would not substantively impact the company as a whole.
With respect to water risks, Dardeattributes substantive changes to financial indicators such as significant increases ienergy costs or costs of goods sold, decreases irevenue or impact iguest traffic at our restaurants. Shortages or interruptions ithe supply of food items and other supplies to our restaurants -- caused by natural disasters such as hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, droughts and earthquakes -- are considered such substantive changes. Such shortages or interruptions could adversely affect the availability, quality and cost of the items we buy and the operations of our restaurants. We may have a limited number of suppliers for certaiof our products. Supply chairisk could increase our costs and limit the availability of products that are critical to our restaurant operations. If we raise prices as a result of increased food costs or shortages, it may negatively impact our sales. If we temporarily close a restaurant or remove popular items from a restaurant’s menu, that restaurant may experience a significant reductioisales during the time affected by the shortage or thereafter as a result of our guests changing their dining habits.
As stated iour 2014 fiscal year 10-K, JohDeere's business may be directly and indirectly affected by unfavorable weather conditions or natural disasters that reduce agricultural productioand demand for agriculture and turf equipment.  This may include water related items such as timing and quantity of rainfall, excessive rain, flooding and drought conditions. Due to the variability and uncertainty of weather conditions affecting our customers globally, for the purposes of this CDP response we are focused oour direct operations, and the water risk attributes of water scarcity and volume. Using WRI Aqueduct Tool, we define substantive change from water risk iterms of water scarcity and volume for those manufacturing and distributiooperations currently sited iregions defined as having a baseline water stress of  extremely high stress, moderately high stress, high stress and moderate stress considering a projected change over 20 years. We also determine if these sites are considered strategic meaning they account for >2% of global productiovolume. If both criteria are met, thethese sites could pose a substantive change iour business, operations or revenue.
Dell's largest water risk is associated with supply chaidisruptiocaused by climate change and other water hazards. These disruptions cause loss irevenue from loss of availability and increase ioperations costs as alternative suppliers are utilized at greater costs. A risk that we are continuing to focus ois water scarcity. Much of Dell's water consumptiois based around municipal use, so we have choseto focus owater consumptioiwater stressed regions. The water consumptiois already relatively low, and we would like to take the opportunity to protect our reputatioas a responsible resource consumer.
From aoperational perspective, substantive change to our business from water risk would be defined according to disrupted operations or lost  productiodue to the unavailability of water. Devohas beeeffective iits proactive evaluatioof risks and opportunities to ensure continuing operations.
Substantive change could include:Shorter asset life if lower quality water had to be utilizedIncrease productiocost due to higher water treatement costReduced productiorates requiring product sourcing from another locationHigher productiocost due to higher purchased water cost
We publish informatioabout the Company’s activities, including water-related risks, iofficial filings.  For example, we addressed water-related issues iour 2014 Form 10-K Annual Report to the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Water-related issues included ithe Form 10-K are those that are determined to be informatiothat a reasonable investor would attach importance idetermining whether to buy, hold, or sell Dominiosecurities.  For the purpose of the Water CDP, we are defining water risks that could generate a substantive change iour business, operations, revenue or expenditure as those issues identified iour 2014 Form 10-K Annual Report.
The majority of our operations and supply chaitakes place iMichigan, which has aabundant fresh water supply.  Although the risks to our company are low at this time, the risks are expected to increase ithe future(e.g. as regulations continue to change and challenge our industry ).
DuPont defines substantive change iterms of the SEC definitiofor materiality. What constitutes “material” must be judged from the viewpoint of a reasonably prudent investor making a decisioto buy, hold or sell stock. Aitem is considered material, if ithe light of surrounding circumstances, the magnitude of the item is such that it is probable that the judgment of a reasonable persorelying upothe report would have beechanged or influenced by the inclusioor correctioof the item. DuPont does not believe it has any material water risks.  Please refer to Item 1A of our annual 10-K report for a discussioof risk factors.  It cabe found here: http://investors.dupont.com/investor-relations/filings-and-reports/quarterly-and-annual-reports/default.aspx
We employ a multifaceted process to determine our company’s material issues iorder to aligmateriality with our company and customers’ key business drivers. Ecolab’s annual enterprise “Assessment of Significant Business Risks” provides the foundatiofor assessing the materiality of issues to our business. The annual assessment is conducted using a survey tool designed to identify strategic, operational, financial and compliance-related risks to the company. Risks are documented along with the likelihood and impact of their occurrence. Aaudit-services vice president manages the process, and the results are presented to the executive committee and Ecolab board of directors. The most significant business risks are reported publicly through the company’s annual 10-K filing, where i2013, human-resource issues such as employee attractioand retentioare included as potential business risks. Using the Assessment of Significant Business Risks as a foundation, we undertook a rigorous process to analyze risks and opportunities specific to sustainability i2013. We embarked oa strategic approach to better understand and measure against the issues that present material risks and opportunities to our company as they aligwith the interests of our stakeholders (primarily customers) but we also engage a diverse set of stakeholders to assess the materiality of sustainability-specific issues including employees, customers, investors and relevant external groups.Substantive change to our business as it relates to water risk is based upoaassessment of water risks at our direct manufacturing operations related to our productiovolume where it caeffect greater tha10% of our facilities by production. This assessment and its criteria are reviewed annually and incorporated into our annual business risk assessment and reporting processes.
Iour business, bulk active ingredient manufacturing sites use the largest amounts of water followed by final dosage finishing sites.  Packaging sites require very little water and present less risk to the organization. Iour Global Supply Chain, we already take into account manufacturing issues that could shut dowbulk active ingredient sites for 6 to 10 months, drug final dosage finishing manufacturing for 2 to 3 months and packaging for 1 to 2 months.  We use inventory management practices as a primary risk mitigatiostrategy.  Aextreme water stress event (i.e. a drought that provided a moratorium owater use for many months) would have to extend beyond these periods for there to be a potential economic impact oLilly. Our Global Supply Chaiarea also works with our Treasury area and aexternal consultant to develop scenarios of "catastrophic" events (i.e. a manufacturing site being "destroyed"). We determined that a drought/water disruptioscenario would have to extend for a long period of time (i.e. several years) to cause a substantive change to our business. Givethese conditions and our product mix, we made a determinatiothat extended periods of drought should not significantly impact our business.  Costs associated with these analyses are imbedded ioperating budgets and are not disclosed.
EMC defines a substantive change as one that has impacts oour direct operations and/or our supply chain. Water-related impacts would be considered substantive to EMC if they cause a material impact to our costs of goods through rising component prices, reduced component availability, extensive damage to inventory, or labor shortages. Substantive impacts would also be those that lengthetime-to-market, reduce market demand, or affect a large or critical part of our workforce or physical infrastructure. Positive impacts that are substantive to EMC’s business may arise from new market opportunities that drive demand for EMC products and services.For questions W3.2a-c, we used the WRI Aqueduct water risk tool to assess EMC's direct operations - our campus facilities, manufacturing facilities, and COEs (Centers of Excellence). Those facilities that have "Medium to High", "High" or "Extremely High" overall water risk are considered to be facing water risk that could generate a substantive change iour business, operations, revenue or expenditure.
Water usage iour office environment is important but is not a factor iour organization's growth strategy.
Operational risks are defined as the risk of loss or lost opportunity resulting from the following: reserves and resources replacement, capital activities and operating activities. Encana's ability to operate, generate cash flows, complete projects, and value reserves and resources is subject to many risks including the ability to access water for hydraulic fracturing operations.  To mitigate these risks, as part of the capital approval process, Encana’s projects are evaluated oa fully risked basis, including geological risk and engineering risk.
Enerplus defines substantive change as any change that would affect the economic viability of aoperational area or facility, triggering a new evaluatioof whether the facility is a net asset or liability.  For instance, if the cash flows no longer exceed the anticipated abandonment or the cumulative positives are less thathe book value (up front capital), there may be a write dowor a test that determines if there needs to be a write down.
Entergy views substantive change as any water risk issue having the potential to rise to the materiality level requiring SEC disclosure.  The measure(s) used ithe definitioof substantive change are:  a) any water risk issue potentially resulting ia compliance violation, permit exceedance, or breach of aagreement, or  b) any physical water risk that could interrupt operatioof power plants.The threshold used is a change ithe metric/measure/indicator which indicates substantive impact odirect operations, supply chaior both.  Thresholds vary by indicator. For example, any single permit exceedance would meet the threshold for that indicator.The frequency and process for review: The metrics and thresholds above are reviewed or updated and reported quarterly, first through the Water Peer Group and subject matter experts theagaireviewed during the Enterprise Risk Mgmt Process (ERM)
Not internally defined
The risk to our operations is strictly due to interruptioor curtailment, as opposed to the cost of water. During our risk assessment, we concluded that the facilities that consume the largest percentage of water are not iwater stressed regions.
Industry definition
We perform aongoing assessment of a variety of risks impacting our business.  As part of that process, we consider potential financial impacts over the near term and longer time horizons.  Our risk analysis includes potential costs associated with increased commodity prices (and other related costs) resulting from water risks.  Risks are evaluated based othe total financial impact relative to the size of our business and the likelihood of those risks coming to fruition.
Ithe context of the CDP Water response Goodyear interprets a substantive change as the inability to manufacture tires iaccordance with Goodyear's long-term strategy. This relates to direct operations and the measure would include the preventioof growing productioby one tire or more, meaning any growth prevented directly by water related issues. This metric is reviewed annually as a part of the global water risk assessment and is included ithe overall water risk assessment plans.
Water-specific risk assessments conducted at the asset level consider and document all knowwater risks, regardless of the financial magnitude. The Hess ERM process considers risks equal to or greater tha$100 millioas material.
Risks exist but impact is not deemed substantive at this time. We are subject to the business, financial and operating risks inherent to the hospitality industry, any of which could reduce our revenues and limit opportunities for growth. These include factors bringing a substantive increase to our costs or limit or reduce the prices we are able to charge for hospitality products and services, or otherwise affect our ability to maintaiexisting properties or develop new properties; macroeconomic factors beyond our control that adversely affect and reduce demand for our products and services, contractioithe global economy or low levels of economic growth that limit or slow future growth.
Hudbay Minerals identifies substantive change as a significant impact othe economics of a project that would result ia substantial additional capital investment or a significant deterioratioithe financial returoaexisting investment.
Husky's enterprise risk management program supports decision-making via comprehensive and systematic identificatioand assessment of risks that could materially impact the results of the Company. Through this framework, the Company builds risk management and mitigatiointo strategic planning and operational processes for its business units through the adoptioof standards and best practices. Husky has developed aenterprise risk matrix to identify risks to its people, the environment, its assets and its reputation, and to systematically mitigate these risks to aacceptable level. Husky defines substantive change as having a financial impact of greater thate(10) milliodollars.The corporate risk register is revisited oat least aannual basis, while the matrix is evaluated every three years.
Based othe nature and scope of our business operations and  our interactiowith suppliers, IBM does not perceive any unusual water-related risks iour operations or the supply chaioutside of those we plafor as part of our ongoing business and risk management processes. These risk management processes look at business risk comprehensively including, but not limited to, risks and impacts related to water use and discharge. We anticipate that the business models of both IBM’s and our productioand service suppliers’ operations will enable those operations to anticipate and adapt to potential risks and mitigate the impacts without significant disruptions to our business. This risk management approach is primarily achieved through implementatioof the IBM global Environmental Management System, established for over 40 years, which is integrated into our business operations
Intel’s Board of Directors and management consider “risk” for these purposes to be the possibility that aundesired event could occur that might adversely affect the achievement of our objectives. Risks vary imany ways, including the ability of the company to anticipate and understand the risk, the types of adverse impacts that could occur if the undesired event occurs, the likelihood that aundesired event and a particular adverse impact would occur, and the ability of the company to control the risk and the potential adverse impacts. The types of risks that Intel faces include:• Macro-economic risks such as inflation, reductions ieconomic growth, or recession• Political risks such as restrictions oaccess to markets, confiscatory taxation, and expropriatioof assets• “Event” risks such as natural disasters• Business-specific risks related to strategic position, operational execution, financial structure, legal and regulatory compliance, corporate governance, and environmental stewardshipNot all risks cabe dealt with ithe same way. Some risks may be easily perceived and controllable, while others are unknown; some risks cabe avoided or mitigated by a particular behavior; and some risks are unavoidable as a practical matter. Isome cases, a higher degree of risk may be acceptable because of a greater perceived potential for reward.
Any risk that is a 3 or above othe internal risk matrix is considered to be substantive.
At JDSU, a material cost is defined as being over $500,000. Most water expenditure is below this amount and is not significant enough to create substantive change ithe business units.
Interruptioof productiocould present a change, depending othe product(s) impacted.  This change could be substantive, due to the customer need for the product, the revenue we derive from the product, and/or the expenditure required to prevent interruptioor to restore production.*Note: CDP's phrasing of "substantive" and our response to questions presenting "substantive" risks should not be considered to relate to matters or facts that could be deemed “material” to a reasonable investor as referred to under U.S. securities laws or similar requirements of other jurisdictions.  Investors should rely odisclosures iour Annual ("10-k") filing with the US Securities and Exchange Commissiofor a discussioof "material" matters.
We define substantive as having a material financial impact othe entire enterprise.  Although some facilities may be subject to water risks, such risks at the enterprise level are not financially material.
Juniper prioritizes risks and opportunities found to be material. Materiality of aissue is assessed as follows:• The value, or risk, of the issue to business operations: Using our corporate strategy, 2-3-7, Juniper looks at whether the issue represents a significant risk or opportunity to our company or industry? Is it current or emerging? Is it already part of the sustainability strategy or does it need to be added? • The priority of the issue to our stakeholders: Does this issue resonate with our key stakeholders? Is it reflected ipending legislation, regulations, or international agreements?• Peers and competitors: Do Juniper’s peers and competitors disclose against this issue? How do they respond?• Juniper’s influence over the issue: To what extent does Juniper have control or influence over the issue through our direct actions, industry associations, or networks?• Relevant and applicable voluntary global reporting and standards and guidelines: Is the issue addressed by the standard disclosures of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines or by other relevant and applicable global voluntary standards?Juniper’s approach to materiality is aligned with our 2-3-7 strategy. The strategy provides a structure and hierarchy for prioritizing the value, or risk, of aissue oJuniper’s business operations. It is based othe following approach: 2: Is this issue critical to our two key customer segments (Service Provider & Enterprise)? 3: Is this issue critical to supporting our three key business segments (Routing, Switching & Security)? 7: Is this issue relevant to our seveproduct domains (Access & Aggregation, Edge, Core, Data Center, wide area network, Campus & Branch, & Consumer & Enterprise Devices)? If the answer is yes to all of these questions above, thethe risk is deemed to have potential substantive impact.Water risks have beeidentified and evaluated to determine if they could generate a substantive change iour business, operations, revenue or expenditure ithe present and future. Risk mitigatioand management plans have beedeveloped, implemented and are being monitored. As a result of the implemented processes and engineering controls, the water risks are not considered material.
Substantive change or impact would be anything that would inhibit Lexmark from deliver products or services to our customers otime or oschedule.  Such interruptions to business and operations could impact revenues and agreements with our customers.
Lockheed Marticonsiders water-related risks to be locatiospecific and does not deem water to pose a material impact, or "substantive change," to enterprise-wide business operations, revenue or expenditure currently or withithe next 3 years. For the purposes of Water CDP disclosure, water-related risks are present withicertairegions where we or key suppliers operate that could lead to deviations from normal business operations (e.g., increased process time, disrupted material flow, supply chaidelay, etc.) and/or a change irevenue or costs to the affected facility and/or supplier caused by a water shortage, regulatory water restriction, water-related natural catastrophe, or other water-related impact.Lockheed Martiselects sites that could contribute to substantive change to our business by using a screening process as follows: 1) Identify sites indicated as “High” or “Extremely High” overall water risk using our combined risk score of the WBCSD Global Water risk tool score, water use ranking, and local/regional consultant risk score and the2) Cross check whether these sites are considered missiocritical because they house productiofor key programs.
A substantive change ibusiness from water risk would consist of a material impact obusiness sales/productio  or causing a customer to have a material shutdowdue to lack of parts.
While the scale and geographic diversificatioof our business makes it unlikely that localized water risks could generate a substantive change iour overall business, we regularly evaluate some of the more prevalent and pressing water risks that do impact properties iour managed portfolio and present that informatiobelow.  Eveif these risks do not currently have the potential to reduce our revenue by more tha5%, they impact the communities iwhich we operate and the health and safety of our associates. We not only comply with regulatory actiobut also strive to help address these issues where possible.
As a starting point, we considered sites at high or extreme (>40%) risk of baseline water stress as defined by WRI Aqueduct as those with potential to cause substantive change iour business, operations, revenue or expenditure locally. For these sites, we have analyzed the additional informatiocollected via our watershed governance survey to identify those reporting past incidents or future risks related to water. We thecalculated water consumptiofor these affected sites as a proportioof our total water consumption, and mapped this against productiovolumes to give the proportioof our total business at risk.Iour supply chain, we have carried out ainitial assessment to identify raw materials from regions subject to water related risk, including rice, tea, peanuts, tomatoes and mint. As part of the development of our sustainable sourcing strategy, we plato conduct in-depth water impact assessments where necessary to focus our efforts oraw materials where water is a significant impact. This process will help us to define substantive change iour business from water impacts iour supply chain.
The maichanges from water risk for Marvell would be iexpenditure from water risk (damages/interruptions from storms, increased cost of water, etc.).
Material risks are assessed at the company level and are those risks that 1) expose the Company to significant or catastrophic permanent decline ishareholder value and 2) the risk must be reasonably possible.
From a corporate perspective ithe Annual report (form 10-K), Merck defines "substantial" as risks that could materially adversely impact the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects.  Risks that rise to this level are captured and discussed iour 10-K isectio1.A, Risk Factors.  For more informatiosee http://www.merck.com/investors/At the facility / supply chailevel, "substantial" would be any impact that could disrupt, delay or inhibit the supply of our product to the patients.
Microsoft has determined that, at present, our business is not exposed to water risks that could generate a substantive change to our business, operations, revenue, or expenditure. From aoperational perspective, substantive change for our office and lab facilities would include a requirement to significantly alter, close, and/or relocate the operations of a particular facility or group of facilities. This could include impacts oemployees and/or technology equipment. Our operational analysis includes a three-part filter of all of our facilities to identify those that potentially represent the greatest risk: 1) locatioiwater basins with high baseline water stress or the future potential for high baseline water stress; 2) annual average electricity use >60 kWh per square foot (large electricity users being datacenters); and 3) if the facility represents >1% of total companywide electricity use (using electricity as proxy for the size and/or relative importance of the facility to our company). Othe basis of this filter and analysis, we determined that our office and lab operations are not exposed to substantive water risk. We review our approach annually as we respond to the CDP water questionnaire and take the opportunity to reassess our risk assessment procedures and look for opportunities to formalize and integrate the various risk assessments that take place withithe organization.Similarly, substantive change for our datacenters would entail the need to significantly alter, close, and/or relocate a datacenter iresponse to water risk that would affect our ability to deliver continuous customer services. We engage all utilities (water/sewer/power/fiber) during site selectiodue diligence. Capacity and quality are vetted and service agreements put iplace prior to completing the transaction. Where future expansioplans are unknown, we obtaicommitment letters from the utilities indicating that they caprovide for future demand (oftesubject to expansioof existing infrastructure). We do not locate datacenters where utility constraints would prevent us from operating those facilities. Othis basis, we determined that our datacenters are not exposed to substantive water risks.
Potential for substantive change is determined through aenterprise-wide risk management program handled by the internal audit department.  Risks are prioritized through a formula that considers the likelihood and impact of a giverisk and also its linkage to the company's strategic objectives.
Although our direct operations and supply chaimay be exposed to water risks, the nature and scope of the impacts associated with these water risks are currently uncertaiand cannot be predicted at this time.
The current drought iCalifornia could have aimpact ooperating expenses at our Sunnyvale facility (if tiered water rates change) as well as ocapital expenditures if we are required to retrofit some of our existing cooling towers to reduce the consumptioof domestic water. Iaddition, water availability could affect the prices of our components, since a number of our suppliers (e.g, semiconductor manufacturers) cause significant amount of water itheir manufacturing processes.
Noble Energy considers a substantive change iour business as one that has the potential to adversely impact the operations or economics of development or one that could be detrimental to health, safety, environment or that could limit the Company’s social license to operate. A substantive change may also positively impact operations by providing substantial cost savings, implementing new technology or providing efficiencies.
